MAMA'S TWO-DECK SOLITAIRE
a text-based game for Windows

This program is an implementation of a game I learned before I could read.  I
have never seen this game anywhere in any collection of games or any book of
card games. The rules of play are simple—the complexity lies in the dealing of
the tableau.

Two standard decks of 52 playing cards are used.  They are shuffled together,
then dealt into two rows of 7 piles each.  The piles are number/named for the
values of the pips on the cards, from ace through king, with the bank, or draw
pile, being between the 10 and jack piles. All cards to pip value piles are dealt
face-up, but cards to the bank are dealt face-down.  After every round of 14 
cards are dealt, two extra cards are dealt to the bank.  Also, if a face up card
matches the pile it is dealt to, for example, a 4 on the 4 pile, an extra
face-down card is dealt to the bank.  Also, if an ace or a king is dealt to any
pile, 2 extra cards are dealt to the bank.  These are cumulative, so if an ace
is dealt to the ace pile, 3 cards are then dealt to the bank, and if a king is
dealt to the king pile, five cards are dealt to the bank before the next card is
dealt to the ace pile.

After all the cards are dealt, gameplay begins. Cards may be played from the
tableau to form foundation piles.  There will be 8 foundation pile—one for each
suit going from ace to king and one for each suit going from king to ace.  If no
cards may be played from the tableau, a card may be drawn from the bank. At this
time, the drawn card is placed at the bottom of the corresponding pile and that
pile becomes the hand, and is displayed, in order, below the tableau.  Any card
form the hand is eligible to be played on the foundation piles.  For example, if
a 7 is drawn, the 7 is placed at the bottom of the 7 pile, and the 7 pile is
spread below the tableau to form the hand.  Any card in the hand may be played 
on a foundation pile.  Also, any tableau cards are still available.

When no cards are playable, the hand is gathered up and returned to its place in
the tableau and a new card is drawn from the bank and the process is repeated.
If all the foundation piles are built successfully, the player wins the game.
If no more card may be played to the foundation, and the bank is empty, the 
player loses.

